OSS through JAVATM Initiative

JSR 144 OSS Common API
COMMUNITY SOURCE LICENSE

I. DEFINITIONS.

"Community Code" means Reference Code, Contributed
Code, and any combination thereof.

"Community Member" means You, Original Contributor and
any other party that has entered into and has in
effect a version of this License (or who is similarly
authorized and obligated by Original Contributor) for
the Technology with Original Contributor.

"Contributed Code" means Error Corrections, Shared
Modifications and any other code other than Reference
Code made available to all Community Members in
accordance with this License.

"Contributed Code Specifications" means the
functional, interface and operational specifications
and documentation for Contributed Code.

"Contributor" means any Community Member who makes
available Contributed Code.

"Covered Code" means any and all code (including
Modifications) implementing all or any portion of the
Technology Specifications.

"Error Correction(s)" mean Modifications that correct
any failure of Community Code to conform to any aspect
of the Technology Specifications.

"Extensions" means source code that adds extra
functionality to the Reference Code, outside the
java.* and javax.* and javax.oss.* name space, and
without overruling the behavior of the Reference
Code.

"Extension Definitions" means a specification that
defines the Extensions, including behavior description
of the Extensions.

"Interfaces" means classes or other programming code
or specifications designed for use with the Technology
comprising a means or link for invoking functionality,
operations or protocols and which are additional to or
extend the interfaces designated in the Technology
Specifications.

"Modifications" means any (i) change or addition to
Covered Code, or (ii) new source or object code
implementing any portion of the Technology
Specifications, but (iii) excluding any incorporated
Reference Code.

"Original Contributor" means Sun Microsystems, Inc., its
affiliates, successors and assigns.

"Reference Code" means source code for the Technology
designated by Original Contributor at the Technology
Site from time to time.

"Research Use" means research, evaluation,
development, educational or personal and individual
use, excluding use or distribution for direct or
indirect commercial (including strategic) gain or
advantage.

"Shared Modifications" means those Modifications which
Community Members elect to share with other Community
Members pursuant to Section III.B.

"Technology Specifications" means the functional,
interface and operational specifications and
documentation for the Technology designated by
Original Contributor at the Technology Site from time
to time.

"Technology" means the technology described in and
contemplated by the Technology Specifications and
which You have received pursuant to this License.

"Technology Site" means the website designated by
Original Contributor for accessing Community Code and
Technology Specifications.

"You" means the individual executing this license or
the legal entity or entities represented by the
individual executing this license. "Your" is the
possessive of "You."

II. PURPOSE.

Original Contributor is licensing the Reference Code
and Technology Specifications and is permitting
implementation of Technology under and subject to this
OSS through JavaTM JSR 144 OSS Common API Community
Source License (the "License") to promote research,
education, innovation and product development using
the Technology.

COMMERCIAL USE AND DISTRIBUTION OF TECHNOLOGY IS
PERMITTED ONLY UNDER OPTIONAL SUPPLEMENTS TO THIS
LICENSE.

III. RESEARCH USE RIGHTS.

A. From Original Contributor. Subject to and
conditioned upon Your full compliance with the terms
and conditions of this License, including Sections IV
(Restrictions and Community Responsibilities) and
V.E.7 (International Use), Original Contributor:

1. grants to You a non-exclusive, perpetual, worldwide
and royalty-free license to the extent of Original
Contributor's copyrights and trade secret rights in
and covering the Reference Code and Technology
Specifications to do the following for Your Research
Use only:

a) reproduce, prepare derivative works of, display and
perform the Reference Code, in whole or in part, alone
or as part of Covered Code;

b) reproduce, prepare derivative works of and display
the Technology Specifications;

c) distribute source or object code copies of
Reference Code, in whole or in part, alone or as part
Covered Code, to other Community Members or to
students; and

d) distribute object code copies of Reference Code, in
whole or in part, alone or as part of object code
copies of Covered Code, to third parties.

2. will not at any time bring against You any claim
alleging that Your using, making, having made,
importing or distributing Community Code for Your
Research Use, insofar as permitted under Section
III.A.1 of this License, necessarily infringes any
patent now owned or hereafter acquired by Original
Contributor whose claims cover subject matter
contained in or embodied by the Reference Code or
which would necessarily be infringed by the use or
distribution of any and all implementations of the
Technology Specifications.

3. grants to You a non-exclusive, perpetual, worldwide
and royalty-free license, to the extent of its
intellectual property rights therein, to use (a)
Original Contributor's class, interface and package
names only insofar as necessary to accurately
reference or invoke Your Modifications for Research
Use, and (b) any associated software tools, documents
and information provided by Original Contributor at
the Technology Site for use in exercising the above
license rights.

B. Contributed Code. Subject to and conditioned upon
compliance with the terms and conditions of this
License, including Sections IV (Restrictions and
Community Responsibilities) and V.E.7 (International
Use), each Community Member:

1. grants to each Community Member a non-exclusive,
perpetual, worldwide and royalty-free license to the
extent of such Community Member's copyrights and trade
secret rights in and covering its Contributed Code, to
reproduce, modify, display and distribute Contributed
Code, in whole or in part, in source code and object
code form, to the same extent as permitted under such
Community Member's License with Original Contributor
(including all supplements thereto).

2. will not at any time bring against any Community
Member any claim alleging that using, making, having
made, importing or distributing Contributed Code as
permitted under this License (including any
supplements) infringes any patents or patent
applications now owned or hereafter acquired by such
Community Member which patents or patent applications
are infringed by using, making, having made, selling,
offering for sale, importing or otherwise transferring
the Contributed Code ("Community Member Patents").
This covenant shall apply to the combination of the
Contributed Code with other Covered Code if, at the
time the Contributed Code is posted, such addition of
the Contributed Code causes such combination to be
covered by the Community Member Patents. The covenant
shall not apply to any other combinations which
include the Contributed Code or to the use or
distribution of modified Contributed Code where the
modifications made by the Community Member add to the
functions performed by the Contributed Code in

3. grants to Original Contributor, in addition to the
rights set forth in Sections III.B.1 and III.B.2, the
right to sublicense all such rights in Contributed
Code, in whole or in part, as part of Reference Code
or other technologies based in whole or in part on
Reference Code or Technology and to copy, distribute,
modify and prepare derivative works of Contributed
Code Specifications, in whole or in part, in
connection with the exercise of such rights.

C. Subcontracting. You may provide Covered Code to a
contractor for the sole purpose of providing
development services exclusively to You consistent
with Your rights under this License. Such Contractor
must be a Community Member or have executed an
agreement with You that is consistent with Your rights
and obligations under this License. Such subcontractor
must assign exclusive rights in all work product to
You. You agree that such work product is to be
treated as Covered Code.

D. No Implied Licenses. Neither party is granted any
right or license other than the licenses and covenants
expressly set out herein. Other than the licenses and
covenants expressly set out herein, Original
Contributor and its licensor(s) retain all right,
title and interest in Reference Code and Technology
Specifications and You, subject to the foregoing,
retain all right, title and interest in Your
Modifications and associated specifications. Except as
expressly permitted herein, You must not otherwise use
any package, class or interface naming conventions
that appear to originate from Original Contributor or
its licensors.

IV. RESTRICTIONS AND COMMUNITY RESPONSIBILITIES.

As a condition to Your license and other rights and
immunities, You must comply with the restrictions and
responsibilities set forth below, as modified or
supplemented, if at all, in Attachment B, Additional
Research Use Terms and Conditions.

A. Source Code Availability. You must provide source
code and any specifications for Your Error Corrections
to Original Contributor as soon as practicable. You
may provide other Contributed Code to Original
Contributor at any time, in Your discretion. Original
Contributor may, in its discretion, post Your
Contributed Code and Contributed Code Specifications
on the Technology Site. You may post Your Contributed
Code and/or Contributed Code Specifications on another
website of Your choice; provided, source code of
Community Code and Technology Specifications must be
provided to Community Members only and only following
certification of Community Member status as required
under Section IV.D.

B. Notices. You must reproduce without alteration
copyright and other proprietary notices in any Covered
Code that You distribute. The statement, "Use and
Distribution is subject to the OSS through Java TM
Initiative JSR 144 OSS Common API Community Source
License available at "http://jcp.org/jsr/tech/oss.jsp"
must appear prominently in Your Modifications and, in
all cases, in the same file as all Your copyright and
other proprietary notices.

C. Modifications. You must include a diff file with
Your Contributed Code that identifies and details the
changes or additions You made, the version of
Reference Code or Contributed Code You used and the
date of such changes or additions. In addition, You
must provide any Contributed Code Specifications for
Your Contributed Code. Your Modifications are Covered
Code and You expressly agree that use and
distribution, in whole or in part, of Your
Modifications shall only be done in accordance with
and subject to this License.

D. Distribution Requirements. You may distribute
object code of Covered Code to third parties for
Research Use only pursuant to a license of Your choice
that is consistent with this License. You may
distribute source code of Covered Code and the
Technology Specifications for Research Use only to (i)
Community Members from whom You have first obtained a
certification of status in the form set forth in
Attachment A-1, and (ii) students from whom You have
first obtained an executed acknowledgment in the form
set forth in Attachment A-2. You must keep a copy of
each such certificate and acknowledgment You obtain
and provide a copy to Original Contributor, if
requested.

E. Extensions.

1. You may not create or add Interfaces to javax.oss
(or any other javax.* or java.*) and Reference Code
packages. You may not reuse any Reference Code
packages without renaming the packages.

2. If You choose to disclose or permit disclosure of
Your Extensions or Extension Definitions to even a
single third party for the purposes of enabling such
third party to independently develop and distribute
(directly or indirectly) technology which invokes such
Extensions, You must then make the Extensions open by
(a) promptly following completion thereof, publishing
to the industry, on a non-confidential basis and free
of all copyright restrictions, a reasonably detailed,
current and accurate Extension Definitions for the
Extensions.

3. You shall not assert any intellectual property
rights You may have covering Your Extension
Definitions that would necessarily be infringed by the
creation, use or distribution of all reasonable
independent implementations of Your Extension
Definitions by a Community Member or Original
Contributor. Nothing herein is intended to prevent You
from enforcing any of Your intellectual property
rights covering Your specific implementation of Your
Extensions or functionality using such Extensions
other than as specifically set forth in this Section
IV.E.2.

V. GOVERNANCE.

A. License Versions.

Only Original Contributor may promulgate new versions
of this License.  Once You have accepted Reference
Code, Technology Specifications, Contributed Code
and/or Contributed Code Specifications under a version
of this License, You may continue to use such version
of Reference Code, Technology Specifications,
Contributed Code and/or Contributed Code
Specifications under that version of the License. New
code and specifications that You may subsequently
choose to accept will be subject to any new License in
effect at the time of Your acceptance of such code and
specifications.

B. Disclaimer Of Warranties.

1. COVERED CODE, ALL TECHNOLOGY SPECIFICATIONS AND
CONTRIBUTED CODE SPECIFICATIONS ARE PROVIDED "AS IS",
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, WARRANTIES THAT
ANY SUCH COVERED CODE, TECHNOLOGY SPECIFICATIONS AND
CONTRIBUTED CODE SPECIFICATIONS ARE FREE OF DEFECTS,
MERCHANTABLE, FIT FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR
NON-INFRINGING OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS. YOU AGREE THAT
YOU BEAR THE ENTIRE RISK IN CONNECTION WITH YOUR USE
AND DISTRIBUTION OF ANY AND ALL COVERED CODE,
TECHNOLOGY SPECIFICATIONS AND CONTRIBUTED CODE
SPECIFICATIONS UNDER THIS LICENSE. NO USE OF ANY
COVERED CODE, TECHNOLOGY SPECIFICATIONS OR CONTRIBUTED
CODE SPECIFICATIONS IS AUTHORIZED EXCEPT SUBJECT TO
AND IN CONSIDERATION FOR THIS DISCLAIMER.

2. You understand that, although each Community Member
grants the licenses set forth in the License and any
supplements hereto, no assurances are provided by any
Community Member that Covered Code or any
specifications do not infringe the intellectual
property rights of any third party.

C. Limitation Of Liability.

   1. Infringement. Each Community Member disclaims
      any liability to all other Community Members for
      claims brought by any third party based on
      infringement of intellectual property rights.
      Original Contributor represents that, to its
      knowledge, it has sufficient copyrights to allow
      You to use and distribute the Reference Code as
      herein permitted (including as permitted in any
      Supplement hereto) and You represent that, to
      Your knowledge, You have sufficient copyrights
      to allow each Community Member and Original
      Contributor to use and distribute Your Shared
      Modifications and Error Corrections as herein
      permitted (including as permitted in any
      supplements to the License).

   2. Disclaimer. EACH COMMUNITY MEMBER'S LIABILITY
      TO YOU FOR ALL CLAIMS RELATING TO THIS LICENSE
      OR ANY SUPPLEMENT HERETO, WHETHER FOR BREACH OR
      TORT, IS LIMITED TO THE GREATER OF ONE THOUSAND
      DOLLARS (US$1000.00) OR THE FULL AMOUNT PAID BY
      YOU FOR THE MATERIALS GIVING RISE TO THE CLAIM,
      IF ANY. IN NO EVENT WILL ANY COMMUNITY MEMBER BE
      LIABLE FOR ANY INDIRECT, PUNITIVE, SPECIAL,
      INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES IN
      CONNECTION WITH OR ARISING OUT OF THIS LICENSE
      (INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, LOSS OF PROFITS,
      USE, DATA OR ECONOMIC ADVANTAGE OF ANY SORT),
      HOWEVER IT ARISES AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY
      (including negligence), WHETHER OR NOT ANY
      COMMUNITY MEMBER HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE
      POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE AND NOTWITHSTANDING
      FAILURE OF THE ESSENTIAL PURPOSE OF ANY REMEDY.

D. Termination.

You may terminate this License at any time by
notifying Original Contributor in writing.

All Your rights will terminate under this License if
You fail to comply with any of the material terms or
conditions of this License and do not cure such
failure in a reasonable period of time after becoming
aware of such noncompliance.

If You institute patent litigation against a Community
Member with respect to a patent applicable to
Community Code, then any patent licenses or covenants
granted by such Community Member to You under this
License shall terminate as of the date such litigation
is filed. In addition, if You institute patent
litigation against any Community Member or Original
Contributor alleging that Reference Code, Technology
or Technology Specifications infringe Your patent(s),
then the rights granted to You under this License and
any supplement hereto will terminate.

Upon termination, You must discontinue all uses and
distribution of Community Code, except that You may
continue to use, reproduce, prepare derivative works
of, display and perform Your Modifications, so long as
the license grants and covenants of this license are
not required to do so. Properly granted sublicenses to
third parties will survive termination. Provisions
that, by their nature, should remain in effect
following termination survive.

E. Miscellaneous.

   1. Trademark. You agree to comply with Original
      Contributors Trademark & Logo Usage
      Requirements, as modified from time to time,
      available at the Technology Site. Except as
      expressly provided in this License, You are
      granted no rights in or to any Sun, Jini, Jiro
      or Java trademarks now or hereafter used or
      licensed by Original Contributor (the "Sun
      Trademarks"). You agree not to (a) challenge
      Original Contributor's ownership or use of Sun
      Trademarks; (b) attempt to register any Sun
      Trademarks, or any mark or logo substantially
      similar thereto; or(c) incorporate any Sun
      Trademarks into Your own trademarks, product
      names, service marks, company names or domain
      names.

   2. Integration and Assignment. Original
      Contributor may assign this Research Use License
      to another by written notification to the other
      party. This License represents the complete
      agreement of the parties concerning the subject
      matter hereof.

   3. Severability. If any provision of this
      License is held unenforceable, such provision
      shall be reformed to the extent necessary to
      make it enforceable unless to do so would defeat
      the intent of the parties, in which case, this
      License shall terminate.

   4. Governing Law, Mediation and Arbitration.
      This Agreement shall be governed by the Law of
      England and Wales. Any claim or dispute arising
      under the terms of this Agreement shall be
      settled by the mutual agreement of the Parties.
      Failing any settlement, the claim or dispute
      shall be subject to mediation. If mediation is
      unsuccessful, then the dispute shall be
      submitted to arbitration by the International
      Chamber of Commerce ("ICC"). Mediation and
      arbitration shall be in London, England. Each
      Party shall appoint one arbiter. The arbiters
      shall appoint an additional arbiter who shall
      act as chairperson. The outcome will be final
      and binding upon the Parties. The foregoing
      shall not prevent any Party from seeking interim
      injunctive relief.

   5. U.S. Government. If this Software is being
      acquired by or on behalf of the U.S. Government
      or by a U.S. Government prime contractor or
      subcontractor (at any tier), the Government's
      rights in this Software and accompanying
      documentation shall be only as set forth in this
      license, in accordance with 48 CFR 227.7201
      through 227.7202-4 (for Department of Defense
      acquisitions) and with 48 CFR 2.101 and 12.212
      (for non-DoD acquisitions).

   6. International Use. Covered Code is subject to
      US export control laws and may be subject to
      export or import regulations in other countries.
      Each party shall comply fully with all such laws
      and regulations and acknowledges its
      responsibility to obtain such licenses to
      export, re-export or import as may be required.
      You must pass through these obligations to all
      Your licensees.

READ ALL THE TERMS OF THIS LICENSE CAREFULLY BEFORE
ACCEPTING.

BY CLICKING ON THE ACCEPT BUTTON BELOW, YOU ARE
ACCEPTING AND AGREEING TO ABIDE BY THE TERMS AND
CONDITIONS OF THIS LICENSE.

IF YOU ARE AGREEING TO THIS LICENSE ON BEHALF OF A
COMPANY, YOU REPRESENT THAT YOU ARE AUTHORIZED TO BIND
THE COMPANY TO THE LICENSE.

WHETHER YOU ARE ACTING ON YOUR OWN BEHALF OR THAT OF A
COMPANY, YOU MUST BE OF MAJORITY AGE AND OTHERWISE
COMPETENT TO ENTER INTO CONTRACTS.

IF YOU DO NOT MEET THESE CRITERIA, OR YOU DO NOT AGREE
TO ANY OF THE TERMS OF THIS LICENSE, CLICK ON THE
REJECT BUTTON AND EXIT NOW.

--------------------------------------------------------

ATTACHMENT A-1

COMMUNITY MEMBER CERTIFICATE

You certify that You are a Licensee in good standing
under the OSS through Java TM JSR 144
OSS Common API Community Source License for the
____________ Technology (fill in applicable Technology
and Version) (the "License") and that You agree to use
and distribute code, documentation and information You
may obtain pursuant to this certification only in
accordance with the terms and subject to the
conditions of the License.

Add to the end of the foregoing, as appropriate:

For written documents:
 
 

Signature:____________________

Printed Name

and Title:_____________________

Company _____________________

For web downloads add buttons with the following:

                                   Agreed and Accepted         
Reject and Exit

--------------------------------------------------------

ATTACHMENT A-2

STUDENT ACKNOWLEDGMENT

You acknowledge that this software and related
documentation has been obtained by your educational
institution subject to the OSS through Java TM JSR
144 OSS Common API Community Source License (the
"License").  You have been provided with access to the
software and documentation for use only in connection
with your course work as a matriculated student of
your educational institution. Commercial use of the
software and documentation is expressly prohibited.

THIS SOFTWARE AND RELATED DOCUMENTATION CONTAINS
PROPRIETARY MATERIALS OF ORIGINAL CONTRIBUTOR
PROTECTED BY VARIOUS INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS.
YOUR USE OF THE SOFTWARE AND DOCUMENTATION IS
LIMITED.

- - - - - - - - -

Add to the end of the foregoing, as appropriate:

For written documents:
 
 

Signature:____________________

Printed Name :_____________________

For web downloads add buttons with the following:

Agreed and Accepted               Reject and Exit

--------------------------------------------------------

ATTACHMENT B (ADDITIONAL TERMS/RESPONSIBILITIES):

NONE

--------------------------------------------------------

COMMERCIAL USE SUPPLEMENT TO THE
OSS through Java TM JSR 144 OSS Common API
COMMUNITY SOURCE LICENSE GENERAL TERMS






I. PURPOSE AND EFFECT.

This Commercial Use Supplement General Terms
("CUSupp") is required for Commercial Use of Covered
Code and shall be made effective as to any Technology
specified in a Technology Specific Attachment once
such Technology Specific Attachment has been signed by
You and Original Contributor. The rights and
responsibilities set forth in this CUSupp are
additional to those in Your License.

II. DEFINITIONS.

"Commercial Use" means uses and distributions of
Covered Code for any direct or indirect commercial or
strategic gain or advantage.

"Compliant Implementation" means Covered Code that
fully implements and complies with the Technology
Specifications (including satisfying Compliance
Materials).

"Compliance Materials" means the test programs,
guides, documentation and other materials identified
in the Technology-Specific Attachment(s) for use in
establishing that Covered Code is a Compliant
Implementation.

"Technology-Specific Attachment(s)" means an
attachment or attachments to the License and this
CUSupp that contains terms and conditions specific to
the Technology therein identified as well as the
specifics of the Compliance Materials and requirements
for such Technology.

III. COMMERCIAL USE RIGHTS.

A. Commercial Use. Subject to and conditioned upon
Your compliance with the terms and conditions of Your
Research Use license and the additional terms and
conditions set forth in this CUSupp and associated
Technology-Specific Attachment(s), including the
provisions of Section IV, below, Original Contributor
hereby adds to those rights enumerated under Section
III.A.1 of the Research Use license the non-exclusive,
perpetual, worldwide, royalty-free right to, within
the specified Field of Use denoted in the Technology
Specific Attachment:

e) use the Compliance Materials to determine whether
Covered Code constitutes a Compliant Implementation;

f) use, reproduce, display, perform and distribute
internally source and object code copies of Compliant
Implementations for Commercial Use;

g) reproduce and distribute to third parties and
Community Members through multiple tiers of
distribution object code copies of Compliant
Implementations for Commercial Use;

h) reproduce and distribute the source code of
Compliant Implementations to Community Members
licensed for Commercial Use of the same Technology;
and

i) reproduce and distribute a copy of the Technology
Specifications (which may be reformatted, but must
remain substantively unchanged) with Compliant
Implementations for Commercial Use.

B. Covenant. In addition, Original Contributor's
covenant under Section III.A.2 is hereby expanded to
include Your using, making, having made, selling,
importing and distributing Compliant Implementations
for Commercial Use insofar as permitted above.

IV. ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS AND COMMUNITY
RESPONSIBILITIES.

As a condition to the Commercial Use rights granted
above, You must comply with the following restrictions
and community responsibilities (in addition to those
in the License):

F. Certification. You may distribute source code of
Compliant Implementations for Commercial Use only to
Community Members from whom You have first obtained a
certification of status in the form set forth in
Attachment A-1. You must keep a copy of each such
certificate and acknowledgment You obtain and provide
a copy to Original Contributor, if requested.

G. Compatibility. Only Compliant Implementations may
be used and distributed for Commercial Use.

H. Commercial Distribution. You may distribute object
code copies for Commercial Use as herein contemplated
under a license agreement of Your choice that is
consistent with Your rights and obligations under the
License and this CUSupp. You may provide warranties,
indemnities and/or other additional terms and
conditions in Your license agreements, provided that
it is clear that such additional terms and conditions
are offered by You only. You hereby agree to hold each
Community Member harmless and indemnify them against
any liability arising in connection with such terms
and conditions. You will pay all damages, costs and
fees awarded by a court or arbitrator having
jurisdiction over the matter or any settlement amount
negotiated by You and attributable to such claim.

I. End User License Terms. You must include the
following terms and conditions in end user license
agreements accompanying copies of Compliant
Implementations distributed for Commercial User
hereunder:

1. Software contains copyrighted information of
Original Contributor.

2. Use, duplication or disclosure by the United States
government is subject to the restrictions set forth in
the Rights in Technical Data and Computer Software
clauses in DFARS 252.227-701(c)(1)(ii) and FAR
52.227-19(c)(2) as applicable.

J. Defense. Original Contributor will have the right,
but not the obligation, to defend You, at Original
Contributor's expense, in connection with a claim that
Your Commercial Use of Reference Code is an
infringement of a third party's intellectual property
rights, in which case You agree to cooperate with
Original Contributor and Original Contributor will pay
all damages costs and fees awarded by a court or
tribunal of competent jurisdiction, or such settlement
amount negotiated by Original Contributor and
attributable to such claim.

K. Proprietary Rights Notices. You must not remove any
copyright notices, trademark notices or other
proprietary legends of Original Contributor or its
suppliers contained on or in the Covered Code,
Technology Specifications and Contributed Code
Specifications.

  12. Relationship. The relationship created is
      that of licensor and licensee only. You hereby
      waive the benefit of any law or regulation
      dealing with the establishment and regulation of
      franchises or agencies.

READ ALL THE TERMS OF THIS LICENSE CAREFULLY BEFORE
ACCEPTING.

BY CLICKING ON THE ACCEPT BUTTON BELOW, YOU ARE
ACCEPTING AND AGREEING TO ABIDE BY THE TERMS AND
CONDITIONS OF THIS LICENSE.

IF YOU ARE AGREEING TO THIS LICENSE ON BEHALF OF A
COMPANY, YOU REPRESENT THAT YOU ARE AUTHORIZED TO BIND
THE COMPANY TO THE LICENSE.

WHETHER YOU ARE ACTING ON YOUR OWN BEHALF OR THAT OF A
COMPANY, YOU MUST BE OF MAJORITY AGE AND OTHERWISE
COMPETENT TO ENTER INTO CONTRACTS.

IF YOU DO NOT MEET THESE CRITERIA, OR YOU DO NOT AGREE
TO ANY OF THE TERMS OF THIS LICENSE, CLICK ON THE
REJECT BUTTON AND EXIT NOW.

--------------------------------------------------------

 
 

TECHNOLOGY SPECIFIC ATTACHMENT TO THE
OSS through Java TM
JSR 144 OSS Common API
COMMUNITY SOURCE LICENSE




1. Effect. This Technology Specific Attachment ("TSA")
to the Commercial Use Supplement applies to the OSS
through Java TM JSR 144 OSS Common API, as
described on the Technology Site, and is effective
once signed by You and Original Contributor. The
rights and responsibilities set forth in this TSA are
additional to those in Your License and the CUSupp.
The term "License" hereinafter refers to the License,
the CUSupp, and this Technology Specific Attachment.

2. Additional Requirements and Responsibilities. In
addition to the requirements and responsibilities
specified in the License, and as a condition to
exercising the rights granted therein, You agree to
the following additional requirements and
responsibilities:

a) Distribution of Source Code. Source Code of a
Compliant Implementation may be distributed only to
another Commercial Use Licensee of the same
Technology. Such Source Code will be Covered Code.

3. Royalties and Payments.

Royalty per Unit $: None.

4. Support Programs.

a) Support to You. Technical support is not provided
to You by Original Contributor under this License.
Please refer to the Technology Site for support
programs, if available.

b) Support to Your Customers. You are responsible for
providing technical and maintenance support services
to Your customers for Your products and services
incorporating the Compliant Implementation.

5. Compliance Materials; Use Restrictions.

Compliance Materials: OSS through Java TM JSR
144 OSS Common API Technology Compatibility Kit
("TCK")

The TCK that You shall use to test compliance of
Covered Code with the Technology Specification is
available for download pursuant to the terms and
conditions of a separate Binary Software License
Agreement. In consideration for the Commercial Use
license grant in Section III.A of the CUSupp, You
agree not to develop Your own tests that are intended
to validate compliance of the Covered Code with the
Technology Specifications.

6. Requirements for Determining Compliance.

a) Definitions.

"Added Value" means code which: (i) has a principal
purpose which is substantially different from that of
the stand-alone Technology; (ii) represents a
significant functional and value enhancement to the
Technology; (iii) operates in conjunction with the
Technology; and (iv) is not marketed as a technology
which replaces or substitutes for the Technology.

"Java Classes" means the specific class libraries, in
the javax.oss name space, associated with the
Technology to which this Technology Specific
Attachment applies as set forth on the Technology
Site.

"Java Runtime Interpreter" means the program(s) that
implement the Java virtual machine for the Technology
to which this Technology Specific Attachment applies
and as defined in the Technology Specification.

"Platform Dependent Part" means those Reference Code
files of the Technology that are not in a "share"
directory or subdirectory thereof.

"Shared Part" means those Reference Code files of the
Technology which are identified as "shared" (or words
of similar meaning) or which are in any "share"
directory or subdirectory thereof, except those files
specifically designated by Original Contributor as
modifiable.

"User's Guide" means the users guide for the
Compliance Materials which Original Contributor makes
available to You to provide direction in how to use
the Compliance Materials and properly interpret the
results, as may be revised by Original Contributor
from time to time.

b) Development Restrictions. A Compliant
Implementation:

i) must include Added Value;

ii) must fully comply with the Technology
Specifications for the Technology to which this
Technology Specific Attachment applies;

iii) must include the Shared Part, if any, complete
and unmodified;

iv) must not modify the functional behavior of the
Java Runtime Interpreter or the Java Classes;

v) must not modify, subset or superset the interfaces
of the Java Runtime Interpreter or the Java Classes;

vi) must not subset or superset the Java Classes; and

vii) must not modify or extend the required public
class or public interface declarations whose names
begin with "java", "javax", "COM.sun, or their
equivalents in any subsequent naming convention.

c) Compatibility Testing. Successful compatibility
testing must be completed by You in accordance with
the User's Guide, and using the most current version
of the applicable Compliance Materials available from
Original Contributor one hundred twenty (120) days
(two hundred forty [240] days in the case of silicon
implementations) prior to each release of a Compliant
Implementation by You for Commercial Use. In the event
that You elect to use a version of Reference Code that
is newer than that which is required under this
Section 6.c, then You agree to pass the version of the
Compliance Materials that corresponds to such newer
version of Reference Code.

d) Test Results. When you have completed your
Compatibility Testing and Your test results verify
that Covered Code is a Compliant Implementation, you
agree to publish a notice on the OSS through JavaTM
Website (URL http://java.sun.com/products/oss/)
stating that your test results are available for
public review ("Review Notice"). You further agree to
publish on your external website, for public review,
your complete test results ("Test Results
Publication") demonstrating that Covered Code is a
Compliant Implementation, and you agree that the
Original Contributor may publish or otherwise
distribute such test results. You must not make claims
of comparative compatibility with respect to other
implementations of the Specification. You agree that
you will not describe, advertise or brand products
incorporating your implementation of the Specification
as being a Compliant Implementation until you have (a)
published your Review Notice on the OSS through JavaTM
Website (b) you have made the Test Results Publication

7. Mandatory Designation.

a) Upon your completion of the Review Notice and Test
Results Publication requirements under Section 3.1
indicating that Covered Code is a Compliant
Implementation you shall refer to OSS through JavaTM
by placing the "fair use" designation "Complies with
OSS through JavaTM Initiative JSR 144
OSS Common API Specification" ("Designation") on your
product(s) as follows: (i) for your product(s) on
tangible media: on external packaging for your
product(s), on the accompanying documentation and the
media containing your product(s) (disk, CD-ROM, tape,
etc.); (ii) for on-line versions of your product(s):
on web pages featuring information about your
product(s); (iii) for both tangible media and on-line
versions of your product(s): on splash screens
appearing upon launch of your product(s) and in
general your product(s) information screens (e.g.,
"About", "Help", "Info"); and (iv) on tangible
marketing collateral featuring your product(s),
including advertisements and datasheets.

b) Wherever you display the Designation, you must also
display your own corporate name and logo, and must
display the Designation (i) in a size and style less
prominent than, and separately from any of, your own
names, marks or logos, (ii) in a uniform size and
style so that no single part of the Designation is
more prominent than any other part, (iii) separately
from any other name, mark or logo, (iv) incorporating
the TM symbol, and (v) in such a manner that it is
clear that the Designation refers only to your
specific product(s) which is a Compliant
Implementation and not any other product of you or any
third party. You shall legibly display the following
trademark legend on all materials in or on which you
display the Designation: "Java and all Java based
trademarks and logos are trademarks or registered
trademarks of Sun Microsystems, Inc. in the U.S. and
other countries."

c) Upon written Notice by Licensor or by any other
member of the OSS through JavaTM Core Team, you shall,
within thirty (30) calendar days, rectify any
non-compliance of your product(s) and associated
materials with the requirements in this Section 4 and
give notice to Original Contributor of the specific
modifications or steps taken to ensure compliance.

8. Notices. All notices required by the License must
be in writing and delivered by means evidenced by
delivery receipt and will be effective upon receipt at
the addresses specified below: 901 San Antonio Road, MS MPK16-204, Palo Alto, CA 94303-4900, USA

READ ALL THE TERMS OF THIS LICENSE CAREFULLY BEFORE
ACCEPTING.

BY CLICKING ON THE ACCEPT BUTTON BELOW, YOU ARE
ACCEPTING AND AGREEING TO ABIDE BY THE TERMS AND
CONDITIONS OF THIS LICENSE.

IF YOU ARE AGREEING TO THIS LICENSE ON BEHALF OF A
COMPANY, YOU REPRESENT THAT YOU ARE AUTHORIZED TO BIND
THE COMPANY TO THE LICENSE.

WHETHER YOU ARE ACTING ON YOUR OWN BEHALF OR THAT OF A
COMPANY, YOU MUST BE OF MAJORITY AGE AND OTHERWISE
COMPETENT TO ENTER INTO CONTRACTS.

IF YOU DO NOT MEET THESE CRITERIA, OR YOU DO NOT AGREE
TO ANY OF THE TERMS OF THIS LICENSE, CLICK ON THE
REJECT BUTTON AND EXIT NOW.


